README.md, before:

# Whisp

A secure, cross-platform messaging application built with Go, featuring end-to-end encryption via the Tox protocol and complete feature parity across Windows, macOS, Linux, Android, and iOS.

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)
![Go Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/go-%3E%3D1.21-blue.svg)
![Platform Support](https://img.shields.io/badge/platforms-windows%20%7C%20macos%20%7C%20linux%20%7C%20android%20%7C%20ios-lightgrey.svg)
![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/build-demo--ready-green.svg)

## 🎯 Project Status: Initial Implementation

This repository contains a **complete initial implementation** of the Whisp cross-platform messenger architecture. The codebase includes:

- ✅ **Complete project structure** with clean architecture
- ✅ **Core application framework** with platform detection
- ✅ **Database schema and storage layer** with encryption support
- ✅ **Contact and message management systems** with full interfaces
- ✅ **Security framework** for encryption and authentication
- ✅ **Cross-platform build system** for all target platforms
- ✅ **Comprehensive documentation** and implementation plan
- ✅ **Tox State Management** with persistent file I/O and comprehensive testing
- 🔄 **Basic UI framework** (Fyne components structured)

## Features

### 🔒 Security First
- **End-to-end encryption** using the Tox protocol
- **No central servers** - completely peer-to-peer
- **Perfect forward secrecy** for all messages
- **Encrypted local storage** with SQLCipher
- **Biometric authentication** support
- **Disappearing messages** with custom timers

### 💬 Complete Messaging
- **Text messages** with markdown formatting
- **Voice messages** with playback controls
- **File sharing** up to 2GB with progress tracking
- **Rich media** support with in-app preview
- **Message editing** and deletion with history
- **Offline message** queuing and delivery

### 🌍 True Cross-Platform
- **100% feature parity** across all platforms
- **Native performance** with shared Go codebase
- **Adaptive UI** that follows platform conventions
- **Synchronized** experience across devices
- **Single codebase** with 85%+ code reuse

## Quick Start

### Demo Build

```bash
# Quick demo (no dependencies required)
./demo-build.sh

# Run the placeholder
./build/whisp
```

### Prerequisites
- Go 1.21 or higher
- Platform-specific development tools:
  - **Windows**: Visual Studio 2019+ with C++ tools
  - **macOS**: Xcode 14+ and Command Line Tools
  - **Linux**: gcc, make, and development headers
  - **Android**: Android Studio with NDK
  - **iOS**: Xcode 14+ with valid developer account

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/opd-ai/whisp.git
cd whisp

# Install dependencies (when ready)
go mod download

# Build for current platform
make build

# Run the application
./build/whisp
```

### Platform-Specific Builds

```bash
# Desktop platforms
make build-windows   # Creates .exe and installer
make build-macos     # Creates .app bundle
make build-linux     # Creates AppImage

# Mobile platforms
make build-android   # Creates APK/AAB
make build-ios       # Creates IPA (requires macOS)

# Build all platforms
make build-all
```

## Architecture Overview

### Project Structure
```
whisp/
├── cmd/whisp/          # Application entry point
├── internal/           # Core business logic
│   ├── core/          # Tox protocol and messaging
│   ├── storage/       # Database and file handling
│   └── security/      # Security and encryption
├── ui/                # User interface
│   ├── shared/        # Shared UI components
│   └── adaptive/      # Platform adaptation layer
├── platform/          # Platform-specific code
├── scripts/           # Build and deployment scripts
└── docs/              # Comprehensive documentation
```

### Implementation Status

| Component | Status | Description |
|-----------|---------|-------------|
| **Core Architecture** | ✅ Complete | Application lifecycle, interfaces, managers |
| **Platform Detection** | ✅ Complete | Runtime platform detection and adaptation |
| **Database Layer** | ✅ Complete | SQLite/SQLCipher with full schema |
| **Message Management** | ✅ Complete | Send, receive, history, search, editing |
| **Contact Management** | ✅ Complete | Friends, requests, status, verification |
| **Security Framework** | ✅ Complete | Encryption, key management, auth |
| **Build System** | ✅ Complete | Cross-platform builds and packaging |
| **Tox Integration** | ✅ Complete | Full toxcore integration with state management |
| **UI Implementation** | 🔄 Framework | Fyne components structured, needs implementation |
| **Platform Packages** | 📋 Planned | Installers and app store packages |

## Development

### Running Tests
```bash
# Run all tests
make test

# Run with coverage
make test-coverage

# Run specific package tests
go test ./internal/core/message

# Run integration tests
make test-integration
```

### Development Mode
```bash
# Run with hot reload (desktop only)
make dev

# Run with debug logging
make run-debug

# Run mobile simulator
make run-android    # Requires Android emulator
make run-ios        # Requires iOS simulator (macOS only)
```

### Project Architecture

The application is built with clean architecture principles:

1. **Separation of Concerns**: Clear boundaries between UI, business logic, and data
2. **Platform Abstraction**: Shared core with platform-specific adapters
3. **Interface-Driven Design**: All components communicate through well-defined interfaces
4. **Security by Design**: Encryption and privacy built into every layer

Key architectural decisions:
- **Single Codebase**: 85%+ code reuse across all platforms
- **Adaptive UI**: Same functionality, platform-appropriate presentation
- **Clean Interfaces**: Easy testing and future enhancement
- **Security First**: No compromises on user privacy and data protection

## Implementation Plan

### Phase 1: Foundation ✅ (Completed)
- [x] Project structure and build system
- [x] Core application architecture
- [x] Database design and storage layer
- [x] Platform detection and adaptation framework
- [x] Security and encryption framework
- [x] Comprehensive documentation

### Phase 2: Core Functionality 🔄 (Next)
- [ ] Real Tox protocol integration
- [ ] Basic messaging functionality
- [ ] Contact management UI
- [ ] Platform-specific builds
- [ ] Database encryption implementation

### Phase 3: Advanced Features 📋 (Planned)
- [ ] File transfers and media sharing
- [ ] Voice messages
- [ ] Message search and history
- [ ] Cross-platform UI polish
- [ ] Biometric authentication

### Phase 4: Distribution 📋 (Planned)
- [ ] App store packages
- [ ] Automated builds and CI/CD
- [ ] Security audits
- [ ] Performance optimization

## Configuration

Whisp uses sensible defaults, but you can customize settings via `config.yaml`:

```yaml
# Network settings
network:
  bootstrap_nodes:
    - address: "node.tox.biribiri.org"
      port: 33445
      public_key: "F404ABAA1C99A9D37D61AB54898F56793E1DEF8BD46B1038B9D822E8460FAB67"
  enable_ipv6: true
  enable_udp: true

# Storage settings
storage:
  data_dir: ""  # Platform-specific default
  enable_encryption: true
  max_file_size: 2147483648  # 2GB

# UI settings
ui:
  theme: "system"  # Options: system, light, dark, amoled
  language: "en"
  font_size: "medium"

# Privacy settings
privacy:
  save_message_history: true
  typing_indicators: true
  read_receipts: true
  auto_accept_files: false
```

## Building from Source

### Desktop Build Requirements

**Windows:**
```powershell
# Install dependencies
choco install golang git visualstudio2019community

# Build
./scripts/build-windows.sh
```

**macOS:**
```bash
# Install dependencies
brew install go git

# Build and sign
./scripts/build-macos.sh --sign "Developer ID"
```

**Linux:**
```bash
# Install dependencies (Ubuntu/Debian)
sudo apt-get install golang git build-essential libgl1-mesa-dev

# Build
./scripts/build-linux.sh
```

### Mobile Build Requirements

See [docs/MOBILE_BUILD.md](docs/MOBILE_BUILD.md) for detailed mobile build instructions.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md).

### Development Workflow
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

### Code Style
- Follow standard Go formatting (`go fmt`)
- Pass all linters (`make lint`)
- Maintain test coverage above 80%
- Document exported functions

## Security

### Reporting Security Issues
Please report security issues to security@whisp.app. Do not create public issues for security vulnerabilities.

### Security Features
- **No phone numbers or email required**
- **No metadata collection**
- **Decentralized architecture**
- **Open source and auditable**
- **Regular security updates**

See [SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md) for details.

## Documentation

- **[Implementation Plan](docs/IMPLEMENTATION_PLAN.md)** - Complete roadmap and technical details
- **[Architecture Guide](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md)** - System design and component overview
- **[API Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/opd-ai/whisp)** - Go package documentation
- **[Build Guide](docs/BUILD.md)** - Platform-specific build instructions
- **[Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md)** - How to contribute to the project

## Support

- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/opd-ai/whisp/issues)
- **Discussions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/opd-ai/whisp/discussions)
- **Documentation**: [docs/](docs/) directory

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- [Tox Protocol](https://tox.chat/) for the secure communication protocol
- [Fyne Framework](https://fyne.io/) for the cross-platform UI toolkit
- [opd-ai/toxcore](https://github.com/opd-ai/toxcore) for the Go Tox implementation
- All [contributors](https://github.com/opd-ai/whisp/graphs/contributors) who help improve this project

---

<p align="center">
  <strong>Ready for the next phase of development</strong><br>
  Made with ❤️ by the Whisp Team
</p>

Commit message:

feat: Complete mobile UI implementation with enhanced navigation and touch features

README.md, after:

# Whisp

A secure, cross-platform messaging application built with Go, featuring end-to-end encryption via the Tox protocol and complete feature parity across Windows, macOS, Linux, Android, and iOS.

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)
![Go Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/go-%3E%3D1.21-blue.svg)
![Platform Support](https://img.shields.io/badge/platforms-windows%20%7C%20macos%20%7C%20linux%20%7C%20android%20%7C%20ios-lightgrey.svg)
![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/build-demo--ready-green.svg)

## 🎯 Project Status: Mobile UI Implementation Complete

This repository contains a **complete initial implementation** of the Whisp cross-platform messenger architecture. The codebase includes:

- ✅ **Complete project structure** with clean architecture
- ✅ **Core application framework** with platform detection
- ✅ **Database schema and storage layer** with encryption support
- ✅ **Contact and message management systems** with full interfaces
- ✅ **Security framework** for encryption and authentication
- ✅ **Cross-platform build system** for all target platforms
- ✅ **Comprehensive documentation** and implementation plan
- ✅ **Tox State Management** with persistent file I/O and comprehensive testing
- ✅ **Mobile UI Adaptations** with touch-optimized navigation and layouts

## Features

### 🔒 Security First
- **End-to-end encryption** using the Tox protocol
- **No central servers** - completely peer-to-peer
- **Perfect forward secrecy** for all messages
- **Encrypted local storage** with SQLCipher
- **Biometric authentication** support
- **Disappearing messages** with custom timers

### 💬 Complete Messaging
- **Text messages** with markdown formatting
- **Voice messages** with playback controls
- **File sharing** up to 2GB with progress tracking
- **Rich media** support with in-app preview
- **Message editing** and deletion with history
- **Offline message** queuing and delivery

### 🌍 True Cross-Platform
- **100% feature parity** across all platforms
- **Native performance** with shared Go codebase
- **Adaptive UI** that follows platform conventions
- **Synchronized** experience across devices
- **Single codebase** with 85%+ code reuse

## Quick Start

### Demo Build

```bash
# Quick demo (no dependencies required)
./demo-build.sh

# Run the desktop demo
./build/whisp

# Run the mobile UI demo (shows mobile layout on desktop)
go run ./cmd/demo-mobile
```

### Prerequisites
- Go 1.21 or higher
- Platform-specific development tools:
  - **Windows**: Visual Studio 2019+ with C++ tools
  - **macOS**: Xcode 14+ and Command Line Tools
  - **Linux**: gcc, make, and development headers
  - **Android**: Android Studio with NDK
  - **iOS**: Xcode 14+ with valid developer account

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/opd-ai/whisp.git
cd whisp

# Install dependencies (when ready)
go mod download

# Build for current platform
make build

# Run the application
./build/whisp
```

### Platform-Specific Builds

```bash
# Desktop platforms
make build-windows   # Creates .exe and installer
make build-macos     # Creates .app bundle
make build-linux     # Creates AppImage

# Mobile platforms
make build-android   # Creates APK/AAB
make build-ios       # Creates IPA (requires macOS)

# Build all platforms
make build-all
```

## Architecture Overview

### Project Structure
```
whisp/
├── cmd/whisp/          # Application entry point
├── internal/           # Core business logic
│   ├── core/          # Tox protocol and messaging
│   ├── storage/       # Database and file handling
│   └── security/      # Security and encryption
├── ui/                # User interface
│   ├── shared/        # Shared UI components
│   └── adaptive/      # Platform adaptation layer
├── platform/          # Platform-specific code
├── scripts/           # Build and deployment scripts
└── docs/              # Comprehensive documentation
```

### Implementation Status

| Component | Status | Description |
|-----------|---------|-------------|
| **Core Architecture** | ✅ Complete | Application lifecycle, interfaces, managers |
| **Platform Detection** | ✅ Complete | Runtime platform detection and adaptation |
| **Database Layer** | ✅ Complete | SQLite/SQLCipher with full schema |
| **Message Management** | ✅ Complete | Send, receive, history, search, editing |
| **Contact Management** | ✅ Complete | Friends, requests, status, verification |
| **Security Framework** | ✅ Complete | Encryption, key management, auth |
| **Build System** | ✅ Complete | Cross-platform builds and packaging |
| **Tox Integration** | ✅ Complete | Full toxcore integration with state management |
| **UI Implementation** | 🔄 Framework | Fyne components structured, needs implementation |
| **Platform Packages** | 📋 Planned | Installers and app store packages |

## Development

### Running Tests
```bash
# Run all tests
make test

# Run with coverage
make test-coverage

# Run specific package tests
go test ./internal/core/message

# Run integration tests
make test-integration
```

### Development Mode
```bash
# Run with hot reload (desktop only)
make dev

# Run with debug logging
make run-debug

# Run mobile simulator
make run-android    # Requires Android emulator
make run-ios        # Requires iOS simulator (macOS only)
```

### Project Architecture

The application is built with clean architecture principles:

1. **Separation of Concerns**: Clear boundaries between UI, business logic, and data
2. **Platform Abstraction**: Shared core with platform-specific adapters
3. **Interface-Driven Design**: All components communicate through well-defined interfaces
4. **Security by Design**: Encryption and privacy built into every layer

Key architectural decisions:
- **Single Codebase**: 85%+ code reuse across all platforms
- **Adaptive UI**: Same functionality, platform-appropriate presentation
- **Clean Interfaces**: Easy testing and future enhancement
- **Security First**: No compromises on user privacy and data protection

## Implementation Plan

### Phase 1: Foundation ✅ (Completed)
- [x] Project structure and build system
- [x] Core application architecture
- [x] Database design and storage layer
- [x] Platform detection and adaptation framework
- [x] Security and encryption framework
- [x] Comprehensive documentation

### Phase 2: Core Functionality 🔄 (Next)
- [ ] Real Tox protocol integration
- [ ] Basic messaging functionality
- [ ] Contact management UI
- [ ] Platform-specific builds
- [ ] Database encryption implementation

### Phase 3: Advanced Features 📋 (Planned)
- [ ] File transfers and media sharing
- [ ] Voice messages
- [ ] Message search and history
- [ ] Cross-platform UI polish
- [ ] Biometric authentication

### Phase 4: Distribution 📋 (Planned)
- [ ] App store packages
- [ ] Automated builds and CI/CD
- [ ] Security audits
- [ ] Performance optimization

## Configuration

Whisp uses sensible defaults, but you can customize settings via `config.yaml`:

```yaml
# Network settings
network:
  bootstrap_nodes:
    - address: "node.tox.biribiri.org"
      port: 33445
      public_key: "F404ABAA1C99A9D37D61AB54898F56793E1DEF8BD46B1038B9D822E8460FAB67"
  enable_ipv6: true
  enable_udp: true

# Storage settings
storage:
  data_dir: ""  # Platform-specific default
  enable_encryption: true
  max_file_size: 2147483648  # 2GB

# UI settings
ui:
  theme: "system"  # Options: system, light, dark, amoled
  language: "en"
  font_size: "medium"

# Privacy settings
privacy:
  save_message_history: true
  typing_indicators: true
  read_receipts: true
  auto_accept_files: false
```

## Building from Source

### Desktop Build Requirements

**Windows:**
```powershell
# Install dependencies
choco install golang git visualstudio2019community

# Build
./scripts/build-windows.sh
```

**macOS:**
```bash
# Install dependencies
brew install go git

# Build and sign
./scripts/build-macos.sh --sign "Developer ID"
```

**Linux:**
```bash
# Install dependencies (Ubuntu/Debian)
sudo apt-get install golang git build-essential libgl1-mesa-dev

# Build
./scripts/build-linux.sh
```

### Mobile Build Requirements

See [docs/MOBILE_BUILD.md](docs/MOBILE_BUILD.md) for detailed mobile build instructions.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md).

### Development Workflow
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

### Code Style
- Follow standard Go formatting (`go fmt`)
- Pass all linters (`make lint`)
- Maintain test coverage above 80%
- Document exported functions

## Security

### Reporting Security Issues
Please report security issues to security@whisp.app. Do not create public issues for security vulnerabilities.

### Security Features
- **No phone numbers or email required**
- **No metadata collection**
- **Decentralized architecture**
- **Open source and auditable**
- **Regular security updates**

See [SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md) for details.

## Documentation

- **[Implementation Plan](docs/IMPLEMENTATION_PLAN.md)** - Complete roadmap and technical details
- **[Architecture Guide](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md)** - System design and component overview
- **[API Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/opd-ai/whisp)** - Go package documentation
- **[Build Guide](docs/BUILD.md)** - Platform-specific build instructions
- **[Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md)** - How to contribute to the project

## Support

- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/opd-ai/whisp/issues)
- **Discussions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/opd-ai/whisp/discussions)
- **Documentation**: [docs/](docs/) directory

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- [Tox Protocol](https://tox.chat/) for the secure communication protocol
- [Fyne Framework](https://fyne.io/) for the cross-platform UI toolkit
- [opd-ai/toxcore](https://github.com/opd-ai/toxcore) for the Go Tox implementation
- All [contributors](https://github.com/opd-ai/whisp/graphs/contributors) who help improve this project

---

<p align="center">
  <strong>Ready for the next phase of development</strong><br>
  Made with ❤️ by the Whisp Team
</p>
